#AMP 2015
1. Motivation:
    1.Low frequency (~0.5-1.0% AAF) somatic variant calling has been done and has demonstrated clinical utility. [Loeb, Olsson, et al.]
    3. Since it was developed as a scholarly pursuit, the chemistry and software was not optimized for such a use.
2. What we set out to do:
    1. We saw an opporunity re-implement a research tool for a production environment.
        1. More sophisticated "collapsing" of read families into reads.
            1. Replacing heuristics with probabilistic meta-analysis.
        2. Performance - needs to be fast!
            1. BRAF status can be tested with this method, and that is currently the only genetic test which can be ordered 'stat'.
3. Chemistry development
    1. We implemented several chemistries:
        1. Secondary index barcodes
        3. "Loeb"-like inline barcodes.
4. Challenges of coordinating computation and experiment.
    1. Controlling family size
        1. Input DNA quantity
            1. Concatamers
            2. Primer dimer
        2. On-target rate for capture
        3. Depth of sequencing
5. Software challenges
    1. Consolidation consists of two steps:
        1. Grouping fastq records by their barcodes.
        2. Collapsing these into unique observations.
    2. Challenge 1: Grouping
        1. Use a sort? O(n * log(n)). Gets slow FAST.
            1. Can speed up with threading and increasing RAM, but that is expensive.
        2. Use a hashmap?
            1. Time: O(1). (FAST)
            2. RAM:  O(n)
                1. I do not want to need 80GB of RAM to perform this collapsing.
            3. Threading?
                1. Difficult (Implement a large, locking, thread-safe hashmap? OMGZ)
            3. Solution: SPLITTERHASH
    2a. Footnote: errors in barcodes
        1. Positional inference
    3. Challenge 2: Collapsing these families
        1. Fishers method for combining p values.
        2. Find the most probable base call, change the base, and assign the correct p value.
        3. Add as a BAM tag because we end up with p values beyond 10**9.3, where phred caps out.
    4. Challenge 3: Loeb chemistry
        1. Inaccurate Illumina Quality Scores going into meta-analysis.
        2. This starts to pile up in meta-analysis.
            0. Read number
            0. Variation by cycle on the sequencer
            1. Variation by base call
        2. This becomes an issue for the Loeb method because some reads are reverse-complemented and some are not.
        1. Solution: "Bootstrap" from a standard on the same run, such as PhiX and recalibrate during the grouping step.
6. Results
    1. Lambda data
    2. Sensitivity (if we have it).
